README.md, before:

# SOS Academy Platform

<a alt="Nx logo" href="https://nx.dev" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nrwl/nx/master/images/nx-logo.png" width="45"></a>

🚀 **Shinobi Open-Source Academy** - Empowering the Next Generation of Open-Source Warriors

A modern platform built with Next.js, NestJS, and MongoDB that connects aspiring developers with experienced mentors and real-world open-source projects.

## 🎯 MVP Features

- **User Subscription**: Join communities with email and community selection
- **Mentor Applications**: Apply to become a mentor with streamlined process
- **Community Management**: 5 specialized communities (JavaScript, Python, Go, Java, Ruby)
- **Email Notifications**: Automated confirmation emails with Monday meeting cadence
- **GitHub Integration**: Automatic profile enrichment from GitHub handles
- **Beautiful UI**: Modern, responsive design with modal-based forms

## 🏗️ Architecture

- **Frontend**: Next.js 15 + React 19 + TypeScript + Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: NestJS + MongoDB + Mongoose
- **Email**: SendGrid integration with Handlebars templates
- **Monorepo**: Nx workspace for efficient development

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- MongoDB (local or cloud)
- SendGrid account (for emails)

### Environment Setup

Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```env
# Server Configuration
PORT=4200
NODE_ENV=development

# MongoDB Connection
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/sos-academy

# JWT Authentication
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_key_here_change_in_production
JWT_EXPIRATION=1d

# Cors Configuration
CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000

# Email Configuration (SendGrid)
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.sendgrid.net
EMAIL_USER=apikey
EMAIL_PASSWORD=your_sendgrid_api_key_here
EMAIL_FROM=no-reply@sos-academy.org

# GitHub API (Optional - for higher rate limits)
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here_optional
```

### Development

#### Option 1: Local Development

```sh
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start MongoDB (if running locally)
mongod

# Start the backend server
npx nx serve server

# Start the frontend (in another terminal)
npx nx serve frontend
```

#### Option 2: Docker (Recommended for Production)

```sh
# Copy environment template
cp env.example .env

# Edit .env with your MongoDB URI and other settings
nano .env

# Build and start all services
docker-compose up --build

# Or run in detached mode
docker-compose up --build -d
```

The application will be available at:

- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend API: http://localhost:4200
- API Documentation: http://localhost:4200/api/docs

### Build for Production

```sh
# Build both frontend and backend
npx nx build frontend
npx nx build server
```

### Docker Commands

```sh
# Start services
docker-compose up

# Stop services
docker-compose down

# View logs
docker-compose logs

# Rebuild services
docker-compose up --build
```

### Code Formatting

```sh
# Format all code
npm run format

# Check formatting without fixing
npm run format:check

# Lint and fix issues
npm run lint:fix

# Check everything (format + lint)
npm run check

# Fix everything (format + lint)
npm run check:fix
```

**Pre-commit Hook**: Code is automatically formatted before each commit using Husky and lint-staged. Linting is available via npm scripts but not enforced on commit to avoid blocking development.

### Code Quality Tools

This project uses **Biome** for code formatting and linting instead of ESLint/Prettier for better performance and consistency. All ESLint configurations have been removed to avoid conflicts.

**Key Features:**
- ⚡ **Fast**: Biome is 10-100x faster than ESLint/Prettier
- 🎯 **All-in-one**: Combines formatting and linting in a single tool
- 🔧 **Zero config**: Works out of the box with sensible defaults
- 🚀 **Pre-commit hooks**: Automatically formats code before commits

**Configuration:**
- **Formatter**: 2-space indentation, single quotes, semicolons
- **Linter**: Enforces code quality rules and best practices
- **Import organization**: Automatically sorts and organizes imports
- **File exclusions**: Ignores build artifacts, dependencies, and generated files

**IDE Integration:**
- Install the Biome extension for your editor (VS Code, WebStorm, etc.)
- The extension will show formatting issues and auto-fix on save
- Pre-commit hooks ensure consistent formatting across the team

## 📋 API Endpoints

### User Management

- `POST /api/users/subscribe` - Subscribe to communities
- `POST /api/users/mentor-application` - Apply as mentor
- `GET /api/users` - Get all users
- `GET /api/users/:id` - Get user by ID

### Subscription Flow

1. User fills subscription form with email, name, communities, and optional GitHub handle
2. Backend creates/updates user record with `status: 'pending'`
3. GitHub profile is enriched if handle provided
4. Confirmation email sent with community details and Monday meeting cadence

### Mentor Application Flow

1. User fills mentor application form
2. Backend creates user record with `source: 'mentor-application'` and `status: 'pending'`
3. GitHub profile is enriched if handle provided
4. Confirmation email sent with manual review timeline (3-5 business days)

## Add new projects

While you could add new projects to your workspace manually, you might want to leverage [Nx plugins](https://nx.dev/concepts/nx-plugins?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) and their [code generation](https://nx.dev/features/generate-code?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) feature.

To install a new plugin you can use the `nx add` command. Here's an example of adding the React plugin:

```sh
npx nx add @nx/react
```

Use the plugin's generator to create new projects. For example, to create a new React app or library:

```sh
# Generate an app
npx nx g @nx/react:app demo

# Generate a library
npx nx g @nx/react:lib some-lib
```

You can use `npx nx list` to get a list of installed plugins. Then, run `npx nx list <plugin-name>` to learn about more specific capabilities of a particular plugin. Alternatively, [install Nx Console](https://nx.dev/getting-started/editor-setup?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) to browse plugins and generators in your IDE.

[Learn more about Nx plugins &raquo;](https://nx.dev/concepts/nx-plugins?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) | [Browse the plugin registry &raquo;](https://nx.dev/plugin-registry?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

## Set up CI!

### Step 1

To connect to Nx Cloud, run the following command:

```sh
npx nx connect
```

Connecting to Nx Cloud ensures a [fast and scalable CI](https://nx.dev/ci/intro/why-nx-cloud?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) pipeline. It includes features such as:

- [Remote caching](https://nx.dev/ci/features/remote-cache?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Task distribution across multiple machines](https://nx.dev/ci/features/distribute-task-execution?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Automated e2e test splitting](https://nx.dev/ci/features/split-e2e-tasks?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Task flakiness detection and rerunning](https://nx.dev/ci/features/flaky-tasks?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

### Step 2

Use the following command to configure a CI workflow for your workspace:

```sh
npx nx g ci-workflow
```

[Learn more about Nx on CI](https://nx.dev/ci/intro/ci-with-nx#ready-get-started-with-your-provider?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

## Install Nx Console

Nx Console is an editor extension that enriches your developer experience. It lets you run tasks, generate code, and improves code autocompletion in your IDE. It is available for VSCode and IntelliJ.

[Install Nx Console &raquo;](https://nx.dev/getting-started/editor-setup?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

## Useful links

Learn more:

- [Learn more about this workspace setup](https://nx.dev/getting-started/tutorials/npm-workspaces-tutorial?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Learn about Nx on CI](https://nx.dev/ci/intro/ci-with-nx?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Releasing Packages with Nx release](https://nx.dev/features/manage-releases?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [What are Nx plugins?](https://nx.dev/concepts/nx-plugins?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

And join the Nx community:

- [Discord](https://go.nx.dev/community)
- [Follow us on X](https://twitter.com/nxdevtools) or [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/nrwl)
- [Our Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@nxdevtools)
- [Our blog](https://nx.dev/blog?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

Commit message:

feat: add comprehensive VS Code configuration for development
- Added .vscode/settings.json with Biome auto-formatting on save
- Configured import organization and code actions on save
- Added extensions.json with recommended extensions
- Created launch.json for debugging frontend and backend
- Added tasks.json for common development commands
- Updated README with VS Code setup instructions
- Disabled conflicting formatters (Prettier, ESLint) in VS Code

README.md, after:

# SOS Academy Platform

<a alt="Nx logo" href="https://nx.dev" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nrwl/nx/master/images/nx-logo.png" width="45"></a>

🚀 **Shinobi Open-Source Academy** - Empowering the Next Generation of Open-Source Warriors

A modern platform built with Next.js, NestJS, and MongoDB that connects aspiring developers with experienced mentors and real-world open-source projects.

## 🎯 MVP Features

- **User Subscription**: Join communities with email and community selection
- **Mentor Applications**: Apply to become a mentor with streamlined process
- **Community Management**: 5 specialized communities (JavaScript, Python, Go, Java, Ruby)
- **Email Notifications**: Automated confirmation emails with Monday meeting cadence
- **GitHub Integration**: Automatic profile enrichment from GitHub handles
- **Beautiful UI**: Modern, responsive design with modal-based forms

## 🏗️ Architecture

- **Frontend**: Next.js 15 + React 19 + TypeScript + Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: NestJS + MongoDB + Mongoose
- **Email**: SendGrid integration with Handlebars templates
- **Monorepo**: Nx workspace for efficient development

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- MongoDB (local or cloud)
- SendGrid account (for emails)

### Environment Setup

Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```env
# Server Configuration
PORT=4200
NODE_ENV=development

# MongoDB Connection
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/sos-academy

# JWT Authentication
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_key_here_change_in_production
JWT_EXPIRATION=1d

# Cors Configuration
CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000

# Email Configuration (SendGrid)
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.sendgrid.net
EMAIL_USER=apikey
EMAIL_PASSWORD=your_sendgrid_api_key_here
EMAIL_FROM=no-reply@sos-academy.org

# GitHub API (Optional - for higher rate limits)
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here_optional
```

### Development

#### Option 1: Local Development

```sh
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start MongoDB (if running locally)
mongod

# Start the backend server
npx nx serve server

# Start the frontend (in another terminal)
npx nx serve frontend
```

#### Option 2: Docker (Recommended for Production)

```sh
# Copy environment template
cp env.example .env

# Edit .env with your MongoDB URI and other settings
nano .env

# Build and start all services
docker-compose up --build

# Or run in detached mode
docker-compose up --build -d
```

The application will be available at:

- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend API: http://localhost:4200
- API Documentation: http://localhost:4200/api/docs

### Build for Production

```sh
# Build both frontend and backend
npx nx build frontend
npx nx build server
```

### Docker Commands

```sh
# Start services
docker-compose up

# Stop services
docker-compose down

# View logs
docker-compose logs

# Rebuild services
docker-compose up --build
```

### Code Formatting

```sh
# Format all code
npm run format

# Check formatting without fixing
npm run format:check

# Lint and fix issues
npm run lint:fix

# Check everything (format + lint)
npm run check

# Fix everything (format + lint)
npm run check:fix
```

**Pre-commit Hook**: Code is automatically formatted before each commit using Husky and lint-staged. Linting is available via npm scripts but not enforced on commit to avoid blocking development.

### Code Quality Tools

This project uses **Biome** for code formatting and linting instead of ESLint/Prettier for better performance and consistency. All ESLint configurations have been removed to avoid conflicts.

**Key Features:**
- ⚡ **Fast**: Biome is 10-100x faster than ESLint/Prettier
- 🎯 **All-in-one**: Combines formatting and linting in a single tool
- 🔧 **Zero config**: Works out of the box with sensible defaults
- 🚀 **Pre-commit hooks**: Automatically formats code before commits

**Configuration:**
- **Formatter**: 2-space indentation, single quotes, semicolons
- **Linter**: Enforces code quality rules and best practices
- **Import organization**: Automatically sorts and organizes imports
- **File exclusions**: Ignores build artifacts, dependencies, and generated files

**IDE Integration:**
- Install the Biome extension for your editor (VS Code, WebStorm, etc.)
- The extension will show formatting issues and auto-fix on save
- Pre-commit hooks ensure consistent formatting across the team

**VS Code Setup:**
- The project includes `.vscode/settings.json` with optimal Biome configuration
- Auto-formatting and import organization on save is enabled
- Recommended extensions are listed in `.vscode/extensions.json`
- Debug configurations for both frontend and backend are available
- Common development tasks can be run via VS Code's task runner

## 📋 API Endpoints

### User Management

- `POST /api/users/subscribe` - Subscribe to communities
- `POST /api/users/mentor-application` - Apply as mentor
- `GET /api/users` - Get all users
- `GET /api/users/:id` - Get user by ID

### Subscription Flow

1. User fills subscription form with email, name, communities, and optional GitHub handle
2. Backend creates/updates user record with `status: 'pending'`
3. GitHub profile is enriched if handle provided
4. Confirmation email sent with community details and Monday meeting cadence

### Mentor Application Flow

1. User fills mentor application form
2. Backend creates user record with `source: 'mentor-application'` and `status: 'pending'`
3. GitHub profile is enriched if handle provided
4. Confirmation email sent with manual review timeline (3-5 business days)

## Add new projects

While you could add new projects to your workspace manually, you might want to leverage [Nx plugins](https://nx.dev/concepts/nx-plugins?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) and their [code generation](https://nx.dev/features/generate-code?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) feature.

To install a new plugin you can use the `nx add` command. Here's an example of adding the React plugin:

```sh
npx nx add @nx/react
```

Use the plugin's generator to create new projects. For example, to create a new React app or library:

```sh
# Generate an app
npx nx g @nx/react:app demo

# Generate a library
npx nx g @nx/react:lib some-lib
```

You can use `npx nx list` to get a list of installed plugins. Then, run `npx nx list <plugin-name>` to learn about more specific capabilities of a particular plugin. Alternatively, [install Nx Console](https://nx.dev/getting-started/editor-setup?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) to browse plugins and generators in your IDE.

[Learn more about Nx plugins &raquo;](https://nx.dev/concepts/nx-plugins?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) | [Browse the plugin registry &raquo;](https://nx.dev/plugin-registry?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

## Set up CI!

### Step 1

To connect to Nx Cloud, run the following command:

```sh
npx nx connect
```

Connecting to Nx Cloud ensures a [fast and scalable CI](https://nx.dev/ci/intro/why-nx-cloud?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects) pipeline. It includes features such as:

- [Remote caching](https://nx.dev/ci/features/remote-cache?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Task distribution across multiple machines](https://nx.dev/ci/features/distribute-task-execution?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Automated e2e test splitting](https://nx.dev/ci/features/split-e2e-tasks?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Task flakiness detection and rerunning](https://nx.dev/ci/features/flaky-tasks?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

### Step 2

Use the following command to configure a CI workflow for your workspace:

```sh
npx nx g ci-workflow
```

[Learn more about Nx on CI](https://nx.dev/ci/intro/ci-with-nx#ready-get-started-with-your-provider?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

## Install Nx Console

Nx Console is an editor extension that enriches your developer experience. It lets you run tasks, generate code, and improves code autocompletion in your IDE. It is available for VSCode and IntelliJ.

[Install Nx Console &raquo;](https://nx.dev/getting-started/editor-setup?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

## Useful links

Learn more:

- [Learn more about this workspace setup](https://nx.dev/getting-started/tutorials/npm-workspaces-tutorial?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Learn about Nx on CI](https://nx.dev/ci/intro/ci-with-nx?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [Releasing Packages with Nx release](https://nx.dev/features/manage-releases?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
- [What are Nx plugins?](https://nx.dev/concepts/nx-plugins?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)

And join the Nx community:

- [Discord](https://go.nx.dev/community)
- [Follow us on X](https://twitter.com/nxdevtools) or [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/nrwl)
- [Our Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@nxdevtools)
- [Our blog](https://nx.dev/blog?utm_source=nx_project&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=nx_projects)
